I dreamed that the dream of Martin Luther King had become a reality. I dreamed that at 
last women and men, black and white, young and old  were capable of living in the 
United States in peace, with an African-American president. Without prejudice. Without 
prejudice and motivated by the candidate's keywords: "Change", "Hope", "Together we 
can".
With Obama the American dream of Martin Luther King and Kennedy can become a 
reality. Equal dignity for all human beings! "Now is the time", said Martin Luther King 
during the March on Washington on August 28, 1963, "to lift our nation from the quick 
sands of racial injustice to the solid rock of brotherhood". The people of the United 
States know that the time for brotherhood has come.
Time of crisis, time of opportunities. Senator Obama has the temperament, rigor and 
vision that are needed in these times of upheaval and confusion. 
Obama represents change, a new paradigm, but also a new style, a new way of facing 
challenges, guided by ethical values and democratic principles, the same opportunities, 
effort, illusion, capacity .
Obama, African-American, citizen of the world, aware of all of the global village, and 
not only of its most prosperous neighborhoods. 
Those who wield public power, who in a few hours "rescued" those who have caused 
the financial crisis with funds that were not available for years to promote endogenous 
development in exploited countries, to fight AIDS, hunger and poverty, or to help the 2
victims of the crisis . now need new leadership pointing the way down new paths 
toward other forms of government. 
As Maimonides in his "Guide for the Perplexed", to  lead the world's most powerful 
nation we need someone who inspires respect and confidence, and who has the 
necessary capacity and personnel to take advantage of this historic occasion of radical 
change to transform the people of the United States and the whole world into citizens. 
"Let's focus on jobs", said Barack Obama during his last debate with John McCain on 
October 15. "I want to end the tax breaks for companies shipping jobs overseas and 
provide a tax credit for every company that's creating a job right here in America . 
(and) help families right away", people . It is they who need protection. "Exxon 
Mobil, which made $12 billion, record profits, over the last several quarters can afford 
to pay a little more" to its employees, he added in response to another question. 
We are only discussing the financial crisis, without mentioning closely related crises 
affecting energy, food sources, the environment. We need a change of course, but not 
one led by the economists who have already failed, but rather by those who are guided 
by the reality of a well-rounded world capable of reacting, due to the distinctive creative 
capacity of all human beings. 
In the words of Lluis Bassets, "a new President for radically-new times". A new 
President for a new era that is dawning with the failure of an economic system that has 
excluded and alienated, preferring plutocracy (G-6/G-7) over the multinational and 
democratic system of the United Nations, which must now face deep reforms, including 
the World Trade Organization, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank 
"for Reconstruction and Development", so that they may fulfill the missions for which 
they were created by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1944. 
Colin Powell has said that "he will be an exceptional President", "because of his ability 
to inspire, because of the inclusive nature of his campaign." Because he knows how to 
convince the American people and the world that the United States is on the way to 
renewal! Renewal! The United States and the whole world. 3
Once again, democratic values. Once again, hope. Once again, inventing the future. 
Once again, involvement of the younger generations. Once again, assurance that 
"Together we can!" Once again, freedom. 
Martin Luther King ended his "I have a dream" speech by saying "when we allow 
freedom to ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every 
state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all of God's children, 
black men and white men, Jews and Christians, Protestants and Catholics, will be able 
to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, "Free at last! Free at last! 
Thank God Almighty, we are free at last!" 
Obama no longer runs the risk of being accused of having "revolutionized" a system 
that clearly requires profound and urgent change. He cannot be accused of having 
changed what only a few months ago the inventors and beneficiaries of globalization 
and the market economy continued to support as the  great solution. (In that regard, 
recent images of certain politicians suddenly seem ridiculous). Obama has arrived on 
the scene at a moment in which almost everyone desires a new model. And, in contrast 
to the inertia, he represents merit, capacity for renewal and solidarity. 
We need new leaders for new times, with great transitions. From the force of power to 
the power of the word. From a culture of violence and war to a culture of dialogue, 
conciliation and peace. Great crises, great opportunities. 
We can no longer wait in resignation. The time to peacefully but firmly call for a 
"human rescue" has come. We must all be Rosa Parks, the African-American civil 
rights activist. We must refuse to give up our seat (she on the bus, we in the world), so 
that we can arrive as soon as possible at our destination in that other world, which we so 
fervently desire. 
I had a dream. I dreamed the dream of Martin Luther King: the dream of equality, of 
justice and freedom. Obama, African-American, President of the United States!
